and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out our
weekly email where i'm sharing
actionable website and marketing tips
useful podcasts free goodies resources
and much much more each and every monday
to kick off your week with a bang why
not give it a trial over business growth
dot email
joining me today like tom hunt tom's the
founder of fame
the world's most profitable b2b podcast
tom welcome to the show squire how are
you doing
i'm very good thank you sam how are you
not too bad my friend not too bad for a
friday afternoon gearing up for the
weekend and looking forward to what's
hopefully going to be a interesting
podcast we're going to be talking all
about
how our audience can start their own
podcast
that's actually going to make them real
money real revenue real cash in the bank
so um
first and foremost tom
i thought podcast was like a really
flooded market these days isn't it
really hard to drive revenue through
them
yeah you're totally right i think to
understand the flooded market question i
find quite interesting because
i yeah i would totally agree more people
are starting podcasts but the market if
that's actually not the metric it's a
combination of two metrics which is how
many podcasts there are and how many
people that are listening
right so for it to be flooded that ratio
of another podcast the number of
listeners has to change
and i'm not sure if it is because yes
more people are starting podcast sports
and more people are listening to
podcasts and so
i would maybe disagree with the premise
of the question
but we can still talk about how even if
the market was flooded and you're not
going to get that many listeners for
your show you can still make money from
it so we can dig into that which may be
what we're what we're going to be
talking about today
yeah yeah i'd love to get actionable and
so you can help everyone kind of
position their podcast so like you say
because it's not necessary to worry
about those metrics but for worry about
how it's actually going to be a useful
resource and
get them revenue so are we saying that
podcasts are still worth doing today
i think
if i was a
head of marketing at a b2b company
and we didn't have
a podcast
i would start one but it wouldn't be for
the reason that most of the audience or
you might be thinking now sam
okay
the reason well the number one reason
for me as the marketer for me that had a
marketer ahead of marketing would be to
actually learn about these people that
we're trying to sell to now
this actually happened in 2019
i was head of marketing at a b2b sales
company
and
i joined and you know when you well
marketers may know when when you join
you have to understand who the customer
personas are and then like
create your strategy of how you're going
to sell to these people i saw this new
type of person that i thought we should
sell to we sold sales software and this
person was sales operations i think
these are the perfect buyers
but there wasn't really a focus for the
company and so no one really knew about
them apart from this one sales guy
called henry so me and henry were like
why don't we start a podcast focus on
sales operations because if i was just
reaching out to these people trying to
get them on a call with me so i could
learn about them but obviously they
ignored me but when we said hey would
you like to come on sales ops
demystified which was the name of the
show and suddenly we had our ideal
customers coming into our office to get
interviewed this is before covered
um
and
i then went on to host 150 episodes of
this podcast right and so
my like sales off knowledge and i've
never done the role but i think it's
like pretty
significant and i feel like now i could
sell to a sales ops person much more
effectively i think that's like the
hidden benefit of a podcast that can
make it profitable
got it so you went from like almost a
noob in the area to being an industry
expert just by right yeah and
like industry expert but then like the
other benefit we can talk about this as
well if i became like famous
in the sales world i go to like sales
events in london and then they'll either
be someone i'd interviewed or someone in
sales ops who'd like listen to the show
yeah
yeah so that has like power when people
know you and you don't know them you
have this kind of status over them which
makes it easier to sell
yeah yeah yeah yeah that's that's
interesting i mean let's let's jump into
it let's talk about
some of the key key benefits some of the
key reasons and you've spilt a few there
of why it is
because i'm sure when and i've talked to
a lot of kind of marketers business
owners you name it about
giving them recommendations of starting
a podcast
but i think a lot of common issues i
hear and you can raise some as well tom
is it's going to take a lot of time it's
going to take a lot of resources
it's going to take a lot of energy and
these kind of things but perhaps we
should
address those with what the pluses are
and then maybe we can talk about kind of
how you how you how you go about it in a
smart way
yeah so
i like to break down the roi from a
podcast from the guest side and the
listener side
and so we focus well
most people think they're going to start
a podcast they're going to be joe rogan
in like three months because they're
projecting they're going to get the roi
from the massive audience base they're
going to build on the listener side even
if their show is just about even like a
tiny part of sales operation that's not
even that niche right and that's just
unrealistic
but what actually happens and what
happened in the sales ops example is in
the short term we're actually more
likely more likely to derive an roi from
that guest side so i'll jump back into
the sales off story
so
we've done about 10 interviews
like things were going quite well very
like low low level production but i was
learning about our guest persona
and then they were sharing on linkedin
so we're getting a little bit of social
engagement we also put every this is
good for you guys we also put every
episode on our blog so we're getting a
little bit of inbound seo yeah
and then
something magical happened and the vp of
sales ops i couldn't say the name of the
company but it's a b2b sales company
everyone knows
came on the show did a great interview
and then randomly got chatting with the
ceo of that company my employer
after that and then four months later
bought
all of their sales team 183 sales people
our sales software
and so that gave
like a 9 to 10x roi on all the time and
money we spent on the podcast
and so then obviously the business was
like very happy with the show and they
were like double down make it more
frequent and so
now that wasn't the initial intention
but what happens when you're like
actually learning about people that
could be your buyers building those
relationships the good things will
happen in the future whether that's
through partnerships or through
customers right so you can't pitch your
guests
but you can build relationships with
people that
if
they need your thing in the future they
may come to you or if they would be a
good partner they could be and so that's
in the short term
okay we look to the roi and
this is so important because you're not
going to get the roi from the listener
side unless you are consistent for like
six to twelve months
so that's why it's so important to look
for the roi because you get the cfo
he's never gonna cut the podcast budget
if you have like two people in the sales
pipeline from it in the first three
months or six months
gotcha gotcha and i think i made a
similar mistake as well when i started
this podcast is
pr purely because i didn't have the
expertise or knowledge that i thought
yeah listeners are the way to go and i
need to maximize listeners promote the
heck out of the show in any any means
possible whether that's email social
media paid ads getting guests to promote
it
when in fact like you say tom it's
actually pretty difficult for my
experience anyway to build up that
listenership fast
um so what you're saying there is an
interesting approach so are you
recommending people that are new to
podcast focus on what you've just
described there so actually interview
their ideal fit clients learn about
those as the starting point
oh i've lost your audio
so you use it to learn
and then also to build relationships
and if you're happy just running the
show for those two benefits amazing
because then the listener stuff can come
a bit later and at the same time you're
creating a load of content that you can
use for all your other purposes
so yeah that is what i recommend i would
actually say that a podcast is not a
good way of building an audience it's an
incredible way of building a
relationship with an existing audience
so if you're looking to get like more
brand awareness or attention fast then i
probably look at other strategies like
maybe
like potentially even just an email
newsletter
um and then like linkedin organic
posting
the that combination would probably work
best and then after six months when
you've got like 3k people on the email
list when you've got up to like five 10k
followers on linkedin you launch your
podcast then
um you're actually gonna like you should
be able to spike up into the top of
apple and marketing category for example
um
rather than starting the podcast first
gotcha gotcha
so before we get into some actionables
of some of the kind of core things
people need to think about when they're
setting up a show for their brand for
their business what are some of the
biggest mistakes we've talked about a
couple but what are some of the massive
do not do's
before you get stuck in and start
building one
yeah three
the first one is going to broad
so the best example of this is like the
email marketing software company they're
starting a podcast and they have three
options
option one is to be to start podcast
about marketing
option two is the star podcast about
email marketing and option three is to
start a podcast about open rates
here i would always recommend depending
on the budget if we were talking to
mailchimp then maybe we would go for
option one option two
if if any company was like less than 50
employees and less than like
100 grand for the podcast for the year i
would say we'd start the email open rate
podcast because in three to six months
in theory we are gonna be the number one
email open rate podcast it's gonna be so
much easier to grow in the early stages
if you're more specific
and then once you you've reached that
the heights of the email marketing
marketing open rates podcast then you
can set your sites on
like email marketing and then ultimately
marketing so it's getting the needs
right at the start okay that's so
important
number two is as we've already covered
is not being strategic about guests in
the early days
right as we said before
roi in the short term is going to come
from guests whether it's partnerships or
customers and then number three is
simply not being consistent
and if you get number one or two right
it's likely that you will stay
consistent because you'll see the
listeners grow because you're you're
like perfectly niched it's gonna be
easier to find listeners so that keeps
you motivated and then if you're
strategic about guests if you have
people partners or customers in the
sales pipeline because you build
relationships with them or even like
someone that came one of the guests you
built a great relationship with them
with them and they referred someone to
you right so it doesn't even have to be
the person that came on but you're
networking right you're adding value to
people in your industry
um but if that happens in the first six
months and you have one or two people
come into the process again you're not
stopping and you'll be consistent so
through my result one or two
gotcha what is in your opinion what's
like is there a perfect
amount of show episodes that you should
put out i.e x per month x per week
the maximum amount
at which you can maintain quality
so just like going to the gym you're
gonna get stronger or faster by doing it
more consistently
but only if those sessions are good
so
if you are unable to maintain the right
quality at weekly then we would
recommend bi-weekly and same for
bi-weekly versus monthly
yep got it so making sure it's actually
decent stuff that you're putting out
rather than trying to rush out as many
as you possibly can so
let's say um
a few of our listeners few of our
watchers are thinking this sounds sounds
okay so far tom how do i how do i put
this into place you've told us what we
shouldn't do
how can we are there some kind of first
steps before we start
lining up
our own niche
before we're thinking about that our own
industry niche around our sector around
what we're actually selling before we
start signing up guests what are some of
the first considerations before you jump
in and invite people on
yes the niche is the number one
thing to consider
once you've done that
i think guests would be second so you're
understanding who's going to be your
first guest typically when you don't
have a show live it's gonna be the
hardest of all time to book guests so
typically i would aim to bring on people
that you know already and if you've been
in your in your industry for a while i'm
sure they'll be very obvious
um also if you want to bring on bigger
people i would typically wait until
you've launched and like leverage your
connections first for the launch
so once you have positioning agreed once
you have guests there's a little like
small things you need to do like what's
the name of the show
what what's the visual design of the
podcast thumbnail what's the intro
what's the outro script what's the
structure of these episodes
and then the technology so what software
you're going to use to book in the guest
what software are you going to use to
host the show um where are you going to
write your show notes et cetera so those
are all like smaller things if you
google lighthouse start a podcast
there's a lot of blog posts telling you
how to do that but i think like
the absolutely crucial thing
is
is positioning
and then your first guess and then all
the other stuff like i think people try
to make it feel like it's complex but
really a podcast just an rss feed with
audio files instead of
written just so like just like a blog is
right so yeah i feel i think it's quite
simple to launch but getting the
positioning right and then getting the
guest right um is probably the most
important two things
when you say positioning tell us more
about what that means exactly
yeah so it's like the email open write
podcast versus the email marketing
podcast so what can happen
yeah i'm fitting into you
yeah
yeah so yeah getting that right is super
important
got it got it okay so focus on focus on
that niche focus on that category focus
on that positioning
start with interviewing people that you
already know so it's an easy ask
um how do you build it up tom once
you've perhaps got a few guests then i
guess if you're going niche and if
you're thinking of this
show as the go-to for something very
specific so like you were saying their
email open rates to start with once
you've in invited perhaps a few clients
or close contacts how do you ramp it up
so then you can interview let's say
target ideal clients people that you
eventually maybe want to do building
business with in relation build
relationships with
yeah so
what um
the launch of the show is like the big
opportunity to get that social proof the
way we're gonna get like perfect guess
whether they're famous or whether
they're ideal customers or ideal
partners is because you have social
proof around the show
now if somebody's reaching out asking
you to be on a podcast there's probably
a couple of things you're looking at you
want to know who else has been on the
show and you want to see you want to try
and estimate how popular the show is
yep so
what we're going to do at launch if
we're just going to maximize all the
effort we have in getting as many new
followers and downloads in apple podcast
specifically as possible
right so we're going to choose the
category we're going to choose the
category so
apple categories are not actually that
ideal with our email marketing open rate
podcast we would have to be in the
marketing category which is in business
in apple podcast there's nothing more
niche than that but if you were to get
like one to 200 probably
new followers in a 48-hour period
just after you launched your show you
would most probably get into the top 10
in the uk or in the us in the marketing
category okay and so one thing the top
10 obviously that bring us more
downloads because we're sat there people
doing discovery will come to our show
which is great but the the beauty is we
then use that as social proof as we're
going out so ideally some of our early
contacts are like big names as well in
the let's say we get one the biggest
linkedin influencer to the talks about
uh open rates on our show because we've
liked a few of his posts he likes us he
comes on he's like yeah
but they're three other big players that
would also be ideal customers
so you launch you release the episode
with jason he's the big name we get
number seven in the us in marketing and
apple podcast we then script our
outreach messages to these guys being
like hey we have the second most
downloaded email marketing operator
podcast json has been on and currently
we're in the top 10 in marketing
podcasts in the us do you have a spare
45 minutes
um
and so then
by month three we'd have had the three
biggest names in email marketing open
rates
two out of the three have shared it for
us one out of three wrote a blog post on
their blog about our podcast well we
actually wrote it but they posted it for
us and so we're linking back to art to
show from that and we're like well on
the way to being the most downloaded
email marketing podcast the world has
ever seen
gotcha gotcha okay so it's
leveraging
the initial hit of traffic to the show
getting it up in the charts and apple
podcasts and then using that as social
proof along with the guests that you've
had
on your outlet yeah then get those idle
clients on board
yeah i was listening to a podcast
recently called acquired and that what
they do is they basically study tech
companies and acquisitions
and they're like business nerds and
they're trying to analyze how companies
do well and something they've been
saying recently is that strength builds
on strength and so all these big
companies they basically did something
where i want and they just leverage that
for the next thing then leverage that
for the next thing so that's exactly how
you want to view this process you want
to do one thing well which is we got
jason on the show
to do the launch well we get to number
seven in marketing
we leverage that to get the next two big
big name guests in email marketing open
rates and then we just leverage that to
become the number one most downloaded
email marketing podcast so it really is
that like just going step by step and
then leveraging the
result or the social proof from the
previous step in order to get to the
next one
got it so tom what are some of the best
ways to
actually market podcasts in your opinion
yeah
so let's go back to the story so we've
we've now released our episodes with the
two with the two people there are other
big names we have jason's episode as
well but there's one other email
marketing open rate podcast which we
know has got like three times as many
downloads per month with us so the
question is how do we get to number one
right i
like most podcast promotion strategies
you can google like how to promote a
podcast and you'll find them always like
get the video snippets post the video
snippets um
make sure you're tagged correctly in
apple podcast
and so i don't think we need to go
through that
but i think
so instead we're gonna go through three
things that i don't really talk about
much because these are this is like the
secret sauce but i'm gonna share them
here
the first one
is
i think the biggest opportunity for
attention in general in the b2b world
right now is linkedin organic posting
and so what we say what i would
recommend for the host of this show
is to
and there's a new thing that influence
the profiles can do on linkedin is put i
see you have a sam is put the url to
something just below your description on
your profile so putting the podcast
there with a bit of social proof so
we're saying number one number two most
downloaded email marketing open rates
podcast let's put a bit long for the
text he added but you get my point
and then we're going to be writing
probably one
well as many as we can to maintain
quality
um
posts that are just focused on email
marketing open rate so don't have any
links that kind of images or videos
embedded but no links in the post or
even there's no ctf just to add value on
linkedin and we're just doing that
without even really talking about the
podcast and then that's just gonna we'll
get more engagement on this post we'll
get more profile views and that will
drive traffic back to our show so that's
the first thing that we're going to do
i'm a little bit complex so you
obviously have to have like
controversial or interesting opinions
about the the market but we're we're an
expert in this field so it's fine so
that's the first one
the second one we're going to do
is i don't if you remember but like five
to seven years ago
you could pay an instagram influencer
like 50
to get
them to post your econ product for like
to their 100 000 followers because they
didn't know their value right right this
is happening right now in the world of
podcasting so if you were to google
best email marketing podcast there'll be
like 30 within the top four pages on
google there'll be like maybe 30 maybe
less than that 20 blog posts a blogger's
just trying to pick up like this traffic
for their blog
um and they don't know how valuable that
is for us as podcasters so what we're
going to do is we're going to build the
list
extract the list of 20 blog posts that
are getting some traffic for that and
we're going to do deals to get our show
included
so those deals could include maybe
getting that blogger onto our show as a
guest
it could include doing a link exchange
between their blog and our blog it could
exchange us just paying them
and so if we do this and we get seven
out of the top 20 including us yeah then
about ideally more than that then we're
just going to be capturing that inbound
traffic over time
nice and well what you'll find is that
you're going to get that for very cheap
for now i mean in a year maybe not but
so that's that's interesting okay it's a
good one right
um yeah i've not heard that we do this
yeah yeah yeah exactly this is like the
because
this is what um
this is not the stuff you're going to
get in the blog post number three and we
already kind of mentioned it already is
obviously guest sharing is like a big a
big thing
now so the question is
and any like podcast safe was going to
tell you that the question is how do you
maximize the amount of times the guest
shares and also maximize the number of
places in which they share and so what
we're going to do when one of these
email marketing open rate experts is
booking into our candidate link for the
show we put a question there saying
if we were to write up an incredibly
insightful
blog post summary of the episode
standalone blog post that talks about
what you said in the episode would you
be happy to post it on your blog yes or
no we'll find that maybe 60 70 of the
people will say yes
and so as well as creating the content
we do from the episode we're also going
to create this five day 100 word blog
post that like really
captures the efforts of their episode
but also makes the guest look good
we therefore we then send that to the
guest i guess post that on their blog we
get the backlink because we can we're
going to link back to the show we're
probably also going to link back to our
domain so we're going to get the
backlink and i know you like that sound
because you're in the seo game
i love that seo tips yeah
and then what also happens is typically
when a company puts a new blog post live
it gets like put into their social
posting schedule right maybe even
automatically so that almost guaranteed
for share and also will get the share
from their business that you might not
get because they ideally they're going
to share personally anyway
so those are the three that are like on
top of the standard podcast promo stuff
that you read in any blog post site
they're working i think the hottest
primate strategies working right now
nice
so uh let me let me say something tom i
like i like those tips i mean
especially like the second one is that's
a bit more unusual um in terms of
actually looking doing that google
search on the top
x podcast top category name podcast and
then approaching those people that have
written those blogs and trying to get
your show on there um it's like so
that's a nice way to capture that
traffic for people that are actively
searching for podcasts in your your
market so i like that
um you did something a bit unusual when
you reached out to us to come on the
show because we get a ton of guest
requests since the show's grown as i'm
sure you do and many other shows do and
most of my ignore because they're just
like
a thousand words send me to sleep um
whereas you actually did something a bit
different you i think you said at the
end of your
request it was quite short and snappy
but you said we'd spend like 50 or 100
actively promoting the show which i
think is the first guest that's ever
done that i was like well
that's good because most of the time i
have to nag guests to actually help
promote the show whereas you're you're
actively saying we'll help you promote
it so that that in itself after checking
out your linkedin i thought yeah let's
get him on um we haven't done a podcast
specialized show in a while so let's
talk a bit about that tom are there any
ways using paid
rather than organic that you've seen
shows get some good growth through
yeah yeah so
yeah being a guest on other shows in
your niche and then at the end of the
podcast saying yeah i also have a
podcast is a it's a solid way to promote
your own show in its own right um i
guess there is also a place for actually
if you offer the paid spend as you go on
other people's show if you're right um
but yeah for paid now
we split from two categories i paid
social and then paid on other podcasts i
don't really have much expertise of
buying ads on other podcasts yet maybe
we'll have them more in the future um
but in terms of paid
um paid social i'll just go through a
couple of strategies
now the first one and this applies to
any platform in which you can target
just ios users
what you can do
and this is just for the cta we'll talk
about targeting and creative later but
you can create a
deep link into apple podcast and so if
you're targeting any ios users
then only ios people are going to be
able to click this so it's fine
and what happens when people click this
link is it will whether you're a desktop
or mobile open apple podcast
and then it will pop up a little
subscribe button and it's just one click
subscribe
and so that if you're running any page
on a platform in which you can target
just ios i always recommend that because
you get the subscription they now call
it a follow on apple podcast before
anything else oh nice so it literally
opens it and they they have to click the
subscribe button
yeah exactly so that's like a little a
little hack
now let's talk about creatives and
strategies
the most effective paid podcast spend
i've ever seen
it's actually really simple
it was just it's one of our clients
where they do it they do this in-house i
can't claim i can't take credit for it
um
is they
all they've done well actually it almost
goes back to the podcast strategy part
their show isn't really b2b it
they basically each episode targets
their health condition
and so diabetes for example and so then
they can they can use quite they have
quite good paid targeting because
facebook and instagram by the way um for
those because then you just target the
people in the right geography in the
right age with or that have an interest
of that condition so quite if almost a
bit of a gift but all they do is that
they'll have a doctor is the guest and
they have just a quote image
um with the doctor's face doctor's name
and an interesting quote from the
episode and then it's literally just
follow us on apple podcast um but the
quote is obviously relevant to them and
their um condition
and they use that ling that we just
spoke about
they're running like pretty high spend
on that and it is absolutely crushing
um just like a super targeted super
focused um
image with a caption and then that links
through to the to the show yeah exactly
so that's uh i think they're a bit bit
lucky because it's a very easy tag thing
for that yeah
a different one we did recently is
actually in the crypto space
we have a show
and
some of the guests are like the founders
of
relatively like well-known projects and
so if every episode anyway we're pulling
out the best clips for organic posting
so what we'll do we'll post
let's say five to ten organic clips over
the space of two weeks after the outfit
goes live we pick the one to three they
get the most engagement organically
and then we take them
and then this is actually on twitter
because that's the place for crypto um
is we'll run that
twitter ad
to
people
who
are because we can't actually run it to
people's followers but we can run it to
people that
are like
either connected to or like interested
in or no sorry similar to the followers
of the people of that person and that
project so if it's a founder of let's
say are they which is the crypto project
will run that ad to people that are
similar to the followers of are they and
also similar to the followers of that
guest
right if we could run it to the
followers of those it would be ideal but
we can't so they don't let you do that
anymore um and so it's just putting
again like an interesting controversial
insightful piece of content in front of
them and then having a clear cta to go
and subscribe
nice
have you done much in the way of
linkedin ads i see some b2b tech
companies are doing quite a bit on
repurposing podcasts putting out kind of
video snippets and then getting that in
front of their icp their ideal client
profile through linkedin ads have you
done much of that or is that
yeah i haven't really done that but i
know that chris walker of refined labs
technique there is
bigger they pull
similar to that the twitter technique we
just shared they pull yeah a shitload or
maybe a counselor um
of really snippet videos
find the ones that they're best
performing and then just run those to
like the top 100 thousand accounts um
yeah so yeah i think that would work
especially he's really good talker so
yeah helps helps you got something good
to say as always we've met with many
podcasts which which i occasionally do
now
that's great um we had a question come
in we don't often quit take questions
but we're kind of questioning as we're
streaming linkedin live um someone was
asking how you can actually measure
the podcast how you can measure audience
info i.e how many listeners you're
getting the demographics those kind of
things any recommended tools for that
tom
yeah there's probably three metrics i
would recommend tracking so i'll go
through them and the tools you use first
if we if ultimately the goal here on the
listener side is to add value to as many
people that could be buyers as possible
the best metric to see this is a
consumption metric which really is
downloads and when we say downloads we
mean streams plays listens
like and downloads like from all
directories so your podcast host will
likely
collate all the information from all
these platforms some even do youtube and
then you just have that download number
in your
podcast so we we track that obviously
and we like to see that go up 10 every
month that that's healthy
um we see
that's without pay spend it could be a
bit faster with pay spend so that's the
number one metric like how much
you like
like how many people and how many uh and
how much how many episodes of our show
are they consuming downloads second is
followers we only track this over for
the three largest directories apple
spotify and google your podcast software
and bring that in so you have to go and
have your like access the listing of
your show on those places and then just
track followers again want to see that
going up about five percent a month
without any paid spend so we just add
those numbers up and track that
the third is
an apple is the only platform that gives
you this is episode consumption so they
say during a time period what's the
average amount of each episode has
that's been listened to
and so what we do each month is we take
the we add up all of those and then take
the average so we have the average
amount of all episodes that have been
listened to in that month
and what we want to see then is that
just slowly increasing over time if we
are making the episodes slightly better
like like floating better hosting
slightly better guests and slightly
better editing and so if we see that
going up over time then probably the
download and follower metrics will will
come
as more people are retaining and more
people listening to more of the episodes
so those are the three that we recommend
got it and is there a tool that you
should use i know you said then
for followers you need to go into the
individual platform like apple and
spotify for things like checking your
downloads
consumption is that something you can do
in your general podcast upload or is
there specific tools and software that
you should
try out yeah so any podcast sourcing
software will show you downloads
so yeah and there's a lot of them out
there
cool cool
right we've covered a lot a lot of this
has been around kind of promoting the
show getting the audience there
we talked quite a lot at the start about
getting idle clients onto the show for
go going niche into the category that
you're really honed in on and then
perhaps expanding it
from there
and building relationships with those
guests
but what are the best ways to make sure
that these relationships are actually
turning into profitable revenue for our
business
yeah the it should be interesting here
right because
the more you like try to control that
almost the least effective you're gonna
be
we've been experimenting with different
ways to like try to make that happen
over the years and we've kind of come to
the conclusion that
we kind of just want to
make just make sure the guests have the
best possible experience
and then maybe at some point in the
future when like weeks or months after
if there's like a relevant reason to
reach out about
some problem that you can solve for them
then you can do that that's absolutely
fine it could be you or someone from
your sales team
but we just want to make sure that the
guest leaves the whole experience just
being like those guys are professional
interesting and competent
because then if we somehow are able to
understand how we can help them solve a
problem and we reach out then they're
more likely to say yes but at the same
time they're going to be more likely to
recommend enough to their friends or
when the company ultimately needs that
problem solved they might come to us
yeah um
so it's not like pitching too hard it's
more just focusing on ensuring they have
an amazing time
got it got it and that makes sense right
so i i can say firsthand we've had
guests on this show where we've perhaps
had a chat before we've had a chat after
we then connect on linkedin or we're
connected on linkedin anyway and then
they might see kind of the post that i
put out and then a little while later
let's say a few months down the line
they might reach out and say hey sam
we're actually looking at getting a
website done or looking at having some
seo i'm sure you've had many of the same
experiences tom with yourself and and
clients is that once you make that first
connection and as long as
you kind of make the effort to
be do a really good podcast make it
insightful ask them kind of great
questions have some back and forth
kind of give them that good experience
after like we said about sharing the
episode and making it easy for them to
promote and you promoting them quite a
lot that comes comes back which i get is
kind of what you're trying to say here
yeah i mean if we take it back a little
bit if you try to understand like how
you
form bond how people form bonds together
like the strongest bonds
form through the most like roller
coaster-ish of emotions so if you think
about your your best friends like it's
probably people that you maybe have
known for a number of years you weren't
like traveling together or you got
married to et cetera and you've been
through these like ups and downs and so
if you think about what you do when you
run through the process of interviewing
someone on the podcast if there are
these like mini
like emotional journeys like first of
excitement when they book in they're
like really excited then maybe half an
hour before that they're like a little
bit nervous and they come on they're a
little bit nervous but they start having
fun and then at the end they're really
happy and then you tell them how amazing
they are and they're like super happy
and so this is how you form the bonds is
by going through this like up up and
down i find anyway and so
all you're really doing when you're
running the show is you're forming bonds
with people that could be buyers and
ideally
if you if you do write those bonds could
turn into cash yeah yeah yeah build
build those bonds build those premium
bonds
um
so should
should anyone that's starting a podcast
actually specifically wants to do it for
their business to drive revenue long
term
um i guess i've got two parts this
question as it formulates in my mind and
one is
typically how long does it see does it
long does it take in your experience tom
from show start
to actually
i guess it's gonna be hard to answer but
to actually getting a your first client
from your experience on the basis that
you're following this structure and
you're inviting idle clients to the show
and then secondly should you focus your
show
should the main metric of your show be
focusing on booking kind of people that
you want to build a relationship with
over and everything else
i think in the short term
you just want to track
how many people have come on the show
that could be
potential customers or partners what
percentage of guests could be they bring
on
um
and depending on how how like
how much you need that short term roi
then that would be closer to 100
in terms of time let's just say you're
running a six month you run a show for
six months it's a bi-weekly show so you
have 12 guests say 80 of them could be
customers or partners that leaves you
with 10 people that you've shown an
amazing experience with you've performed
the bond with
from those 10 assuming you have a
product that actually solved the problem
that they have
then i would
ideally want to see like you move into a
partnership or sales conversation with
one of them
that's probably like a reasonable thing
to expect i would say
over what space of time was that
it's a six month period for a bi-weekly
show i think i've got the master i got
it so the 6.2 yeah
yeah yeah yeah makes sense and then were
you saying some of those
prospects you might have had on the show
if you think that there is a good fit
you might reach out to them like a few
months after the show and just say look
we discussed this i think your your
company could perhaps benefit
is it worth the conversation that kind
of thing
yeah exactly
nice
all right i think the only other thing i
wanted to to ask tom i think the only
thing we haven't covered on podcasts is
just a quick one on sponsorships what
are your thoughts
because i know a lot of someone actually
put in the um the questions section
what should be the process in in getting
a sponsorship with the show is that
something you should even consider when
you're doing what we've discussed or
should that be a later thought
yeah i think
i think it is valuable
because you can then take those funds
and reinvest back into production or
into promotion
um i typically don't recommend like
going out to find sponsorship it's just
like another thing to do
if you get someone inbound and you can
close them on a deal that's like
exclusive and quite nice
um
then i would recommend that
but in the like in the early days i'd
rather focus the time instead of writing
a sales process to get someone sure but
i really focus time on making the
podcast better and making sure you're
getting the guests right
yeah if someone comes inbound and they
you have like 200 downloads a month and
they're offering you a thousand dollars
a month or you can close them on a
thousand dollar month because it's going
to be exclusive you're going to tag them
in all the linkedin posts etc um then i
pro and then i do take that i recommend
taking that and i've also done that on
my show with company called hrs we'll
talk about much in a minute um because
for that reason like
if they they pay like 400 a month i
don't have that many downloads and i
just take that money and i spend it on
ads for the show
nice
yeah yeah yeah all makes sense man well
that that said thanks very much for
coming on the show tom really enjoyed
chatting all things podcasts and how to
drive revenue with your show
so please do tell us more about how
everyone listening or tuning in can
learn more about your company and the
best way to connect with you and get in
touch
yeah sure search for tomorrow on
linkedin and you can add me if you have
any questions about podcasting then
please ask them there um famed iso is we
run podcasts for b2b companies so that's
where you can go to find that and then
of course
i would be in remiss if i didn't say
this confessions of a b2b marketer in my
podcast where i just have conversations
about this kind of stuff with
with other people
nice one man i'll put all of those links
over on the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that tom thanks once again for
coming on sir
thank you for having me sam
cheers man and as always if you enjoyed
today's show a quick rating on your
podcast channel really goes a long way
for us so if you're on youtube click
subscribe and with that we should catch
you on the next episode for more
actionable no bs marketing tips to grow
your business and revenue cheers for
tuning in